# Tutorial: Memory Management

## Memory Management

The scripting system of Synthesizer V Studio uses a reference-counting technique to share objects and safely transfer the ownership between the host (which runs native code with hard-coded memory management) and the client (which uses garbage collection).

In most cases, script authors do not need to know the underlying mechanism to write working and memory-safe code as most misuses will be detected by the script environment, causing error messages to pop up, e.g. "failed to access a deleted object". There however could be edge cases that go undetected, and in very rare cases, causing crashes.

## Managed and Unmanaged Objects

- A [`NestedObject`](NestedObject.md) can be garbage-collected (**managed**) by the client environment if it has no parent, unless it is a top-level host-owned object (e.g. the main project).
- If a [`NestedObject`](NestedObject.md) has a parent, then it is always **unmanaged**.

For example, if a [`NoteGroup`](NoteGroup.md) is created from a script with a few notes added to it,

- NoteGroup (managed)
  
  - Note 1 (unmanaged)
  - Note 2 (unmanaged)
  - Note 3 (unmanaged)
  - Automation 1 (unmanaged)
  - Automation 2 (unmanaged)
  - ...

If the parent [`NoteGroup`](NoteGroup.md) gets garbage-collected by the client, the host-side destructor for [`NoteGroup`](NoteGroup.md) will be triggered, cleaning up all of its unmanaged children.

If the client environment has a reference to one of the unmanaged notes in the [`NoteGroup`](NoteGroup.md), the reference will be marked as deleted when the unmanaged note gets deleted, that is, either when the parent [`NoteGroup`](NoteGroup.md) gets garbage-collected, or when the user explicitly deletes the note. Any attempt to access the invalid reference will be detected and result in an error message "failed to access a deleted 'Note' object".

When the managed [`NoteGroup`](NoteGroup.md) is added to a [`Project`](Project.md), it gets converted into an unmanaged object. This conversion is a simple state change that signals the bypass of garbage collection and does not involve any memory allocation/free/copy.

Documentation generated by [JSDoc 4.0.4](https://github.com/jsdoc3/jsdoc) on Thu Oct 09 2025 18:00:39 GMT+0900 (Japan Standard Time) using the [docdash](https://github.com/clenemt/docdash) theme.

Copyright 2020-2025 Dreamtonics Co., Ltd.